We've hinted how the assumptions
underlying exploring starts
might limit the applicability of
Monte Carlo control in this video.
We describe how to combine
Epsilon greedy expiration
with Monte Carlo to learn
near optimal policies.
By the end of this video you will
understand why exploring starts can be
problematic in real problems and
you will be able to describe
an alternative expiration method for
Monte Carlo control.
Let's think about some situations
where we cannot use exploring starts
this algorithm must be able to start
from every possible State action pair.
Otherwise the age of may
not explore enough and
could converge to a suboptimal
solution in many problems.
It can be difficult to randomly
sample an initial State action pair.
For example, how would you randomly
sample the initial State action pair for
a self-driving car?
How could we ensure the agent can
start in all possible States?
We would need to put the car in
many different configurations
in the middle of a busy freeway.
This would be dangerous and impractical.
So, how can we learn all the action
values without exploring starts?
Remember Epsilon greedy expiration.
We discussed this simple but
effective method in the Bandit lectures
we can use it with Monte Carlo to
as a quick recap Epsilon greedy
policies are stochastic policies.
They usually take the greedy action,
but occasionally take a random action.
Epsilon greedy policies are a subset of
a larger class of policies called Epsilon
soft policies Epsilon soft
policies take each action
with probability at least Epsilon
over the number of actions.
For example, both policies shown on
the slide are valid Epsilon soft policies.
The uniform random policy is another
notable Epsilon South policy.
Epsilon soft policies Force the agent to
continually explore that means we can drop
the exploring starts requirement from the
Monte Carlo control algorithm an Epsilon
soft policy assigns nonzero probability
to each action in every state because
of this Epsilon soft agents continue to
visit all state action pairs indefinitely.
Epsilon soft policies are always
stochastic deterministic policy specify
a single action to take in each state
stochastic policies instead specify
the probability of taking action
in each state in epsilon.
Soft policies.
All actions have a probability of at
least Epsilon over the number of actions.
They will eventually try all the actions.
Let's look at an example of an Epsilon
greedy policy and a deterministic policy.
Here we have a grid rolled with the arrows
representing the deterministic policy.
From the start State the agent
will follow the exact same
trajectory through the grip world.
The Epsilon greedy policy has more arrows
because every action has some small
probability of being selected accordingly.
The agent will probably follow a slightly
different trajectory every episode.
After enough episodes,
it will have taken every action at least
once in every state this difference
extends the solutions that we find by
exploring with Epsilon soft policies.
If our policy always gives at least
Epsilon probability to each action,
it's impossible to converge to
a deterministic optimal policy
exploring starts can be used
to find the optimal policy.
But that's on soft policies can only be
used to find the optimal Epsilon soft
policy.
That is the policy with
the highest value in each state
out of all the Epsilon soft policies.
This policy performs worse than
the optimal policy in general.
However, it often performs reasonably.
Well and
allows us to get rid of exploring starts.
Let's look at the pseudo code for Monte
Carlo control with Epsilon soft policies.
It's easy to understand this algorithm by
highlighting how it differs from exploring
starts.
There's one change to the initial
conditions one change to the policy
evaluation step and
one change the policy Improvement step.
The initial policy must be Epsilon soft
such as the uniform random policy.
The next change is how we use
the policy to generate training data
since the agents policy is Epsilon soft.
We don't have to rely on
exploring starts for exploration
instead the agent simply generates an
episode following its Epsilon soft policy.
Finally.
We improve the policy.
The new policy is Epsilon greedy
with respect to the current
action value estimates.
You might think that this should
be an Epsilon soft policy
rather than Epsilon greedy.
However, this makes sense because
the optimal Epsilon soft policy
is an Epsilon greedy policy.
Even though this algorithm may
not find the optimal policy.
It does find the optimal Epsilon
softball see in future videos.
We will discuss how to
learn the optimal policy
using a different method called
Q learning in this video.
We talked about the practicality
of exploring starts and
discuss Monte Carlo control
with Epsilon soft policies.
That's it for this time go forth and
explore safely.